---
layout: post
title: "OpenCV"
categories: Python
author: "Michał"
math: true
---



# OpenCV

[OpenCV Python Tutorials](https://opencv-python-tutroals.readthedocs.io)

# Erosion

For an erosion, you examine all of the pixels in a pixel neighbourhood that are touching the structuring element.  If **every non-zero pixel** is touching a structuring element pixel that is 1, then the output  pixel in the corresponding centre position with respect to the input is  1.  If there is at least one non-zero pixel that **does not** touch a structuring pixel that is 1, then the output is 0.  

In terms of the rectangular structuring element, you need to make  sure that every pixel in the structuring element is touching a non-zero  pixel in your image for a pixel neighbourhood.  If it isn't, then the  output is 0, else 1.  This effectively eliminates small spurious areas  of noise and also decreases the area of objects slightly.

The size factors in where the larger the rectangle, the more  shrinking is performed.  The size of the structuring element is a  baseline where any objects that are smaller than this rectangular  structuring element, you can consider them as being filtered and not  appearing in the output.  Basically, choosing a 1 x 1 rectangular  structuring element is the same as the input image itself because that  structuring element fits all pixels inside it as the pixel is the  smallest representation of information possible in an image.

# Dilation

Dilation is the opposite of erosion.  If there is at least one  non-zero pixel that touches a pixel in the structuring element that is  1, then the output is 1, else the output is 0.  You can think of this as slightly enlarging object areas and making small islands bigger.

The implications with size here is that the larger the structuring  element, the larger the areas of the objects will be and the larger the  isolated islands become.

------

What you're doing is an erosion first followed by a dilation.  This is what is known as an **opening** operation.  The purpose of this operation is to remove small islands of noise while (trying to) maintain the areas of the larger objects in  your image.  The erosion removes those islands while the dilation grows  back the larger objects to their original sizes.

You follow this with an erosion again for some reason, which I can't quite understand, but that's ok.

------

What I would personally do is perform a **closing**  operation first which is a dilation followed by an erosion.  Closing  helps group areas that are close together into a single object.  As  such, you see that there are some larger areas that are close to each  other that should probably be joined before we do anything else.  As  such, I would do a closing first, then do an **opening** after so that we can remove the isolated noisy areas.  Take note that I'm going to make the closing structuring element size **larger** as I want to make sure I get nearby pixels and the opening structuring element size **smaller** so that I don't want to mistakenly remove any of the larger areas.